# VasculAR - Integration of Deep Learning into automatic volumetric cardiovascular dissection and reconstruction in simulated 3D space for medical practice

Accurate and efficient analysis of cardiac images is crucial in the diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular disease - a leading cause of mortality worldwide and in Vietnam. However, this task is time-consuming, labor-intensive, and prone to errors. The 2D data complicates analysis due to the anatomical complexity and diverse cardiovascular pathologies. Therefore, we have researched and developed the VasculAR software system, integrating deep learning algorithms to fully automate segmentation and reconstruction of 3D cardiac structures from cross-sectional scans; automatically predict 12 cardiovascular diseases; store analysis data on cloud databases; and simulate surgical space for in-depth interactions with cardiac models. We also conducted a study and collected raw cross-sectional cardiac images of Vietnamese patients from Vietnamese hospitals to ensure practical application in our country. We explored 4 deep learning models U-Net, ResUNet, U-Net Attention, V-Net with 3 loss functions cross entropy (CE), dice loss (DL), and focal loss (FL) for automatic segmentation. Additionally, we investigated the pathologically diagnostic procedure using the Dice Score matching method, and enhanced the speed, accuracy, detail of the 3D reconstruction algorithm. We also developed a virtual reality simulation to assist experts with advanced interactive functions (e.g. slicing, volume/wall thickness measurement) on 3D cardiac structures in virtual reality environment. The resulting Vietnamese heart dataset (VHSCDD) was established; the fully automatic segmentation model Triple View R-Net and 3D cardiac reconstruction algorithm have been affirmed by doctors and experts to facilitate easier observation of cardiac defects. The software system has been tested and evaluated to have high applicability in medical practice and anatomy education.

[Old video demo](https://youtu.be/fm9QD1Xxpp0)

[New video demo 1](https://youtu.be/6VeMSu0EKDk)

[New video demo 2](https://youtu.be/RHZaBJbeGSw?si=XaRYEvbEwq8msBvA)

